---
layout: post
title: "The problem with agile evangelists"
categories: career
---


# Stating the problem

I see occasionally on various sites, and most predominantly in
LinkedIn, articles about agile, and the way that it could make
someone's organisation be reborn from the froth of waterfall. And the
problem is that agile is not wrong, but they are, most of the time and
according to my own personal opinion.


# Getting buy-in

I admit that it's not easy to get significant buy-in on any new (or
old) idea. You have to present your case in a level high enough so
that your audience is not perplexed with too much detail and
jargon. You have to be clear enough and repeat yourself enough, so
that a significant portion of your message will pass along the other
side unharmed. You have to request feedback and evaluate your ability
to express your idea concisely and succinctly. You have to double
check that your idea really solves a specific problem that is known
and recognised, without adding unneeded complexity to an already
complex industry. Finally, you have to deliver after getting
buy-in, and this is maybe the hardest part.


# What I see with a first glance

One way I see agile evangelists trying to push their agenda is through
the use of parables. And indeed, since I'm talking about
"evangelists", "parables" really hits the spot. They try, for
instance, to liken the agile process with interfamilial relations. So,
in order to prove that agile is the promised panacea, they explain how
it is nicely incorporated in the way that you try to raise your
children. That has a small grain of truth, for a really stretched out
version of truth.

We could equally argue that raising your children is a first and
foremost waterfall process. The children have to follow the
architectural plan laid out by their parents. The process of raising
them is really long and one way, and you don't have customer input
early on to get proper decisions that would shape your children's
future to the best of their interest.


# Who is truly the audience of agile?

What I really want to say here is that parables are not a suitable way
to bring your message across. You have to think of your audience, and
your audience is not 1st century peasants in the rural outskirts of
Judea. It's about educated people that have worked on real projects,
have seen the beast of complexity eye to eye and have tried to fight
it. And most of them have already families, so I don't see how they
could be convinced with naive similes.


# Who are truly these evangelists

I don't want to say that all agile evangelists are worthless. That's
way beside the point of this small article. I'm just wandering a lot
of times what is the background of these evangelists. Have they really
worked in a software development team? Have they led one or more
developer teams? And now that I think of it, is it really waterfall a
bad system?

In my opinion, most agile evangelists try to convince about their
truth corporate heads, when they should be thinking about the base of
the pyramid, because I believe that agile was initially created for
the small developer team. Their objective would be not to replace the
waterfall, but instead to climb it from the bottom up.

